login.md, before:

-- Title: Lowering the barrier to in-process sandboxing

# Introduction

Modern software makes heavy use of third-party libraries. While this is key
for developer productivity, this is also a security nightmare. Third party
libraries, today, are completely trusted and, unfortunately, this means that
bugs in any library can be easily exploited to compromise the entire
application. Even more worrisome, attacks on software supply chains are
becoming more prevealent: attackers are compromising (and sometimes buying)
the accounts of software maintainers to slip backdoored code into popular
libraries.

There is a practical alternative to today's trust-everything model: we can
sandbox libraries and, in turn, minimize the damage due to library bugs and
exploits. Many libraries do not require complete trust for applications to
safely use their functionality. For example, image decoders like libjpeg and
libpng don't need access to anything but the image buffers they operates on,
OpenSSL doesn't need access to anything but the socket it's reading from and
the bytstream it's writing the decrypted HTTP stream to, and spell checkers
like Hunspell don't need access to anything but dictionary files and the
string it's spell checking. (These are just a few examples, however, we
believe many other examples abound.) This implicit separation of privilege
makes libraries especially well suited for sandboxing.

Unfortunately, library sandboxing has suffered from a chicken and egg
problem. Without practical tools for sandboxing libraries with minimal
performance overhead and engineering effort, developers and security
engineers are not looking for these opportunities. Our own experience
sandboxing libraries in Firefox reflects this. Our initial
attempts to manually sandbox third party libraries were labor intensive,
and extremely error prone. In contrast, once we developed a mature
framework---RLBox---to support this activity, the incremental work to sandbox
new libraries became minimal, and more opportunities to sandbox additional
parts of the application became apparent.

For example, while we began with third party font shaping libraries, now
Firefox developers and security engineers are using RLBox for media decoding,
spell checking, even speech synthesis. Similar opportunities exist in many
other application domains. For example, secure messaging apps (e.g., Signal,
WhatsApp, and iMessage), servers and runtimes (e.g., Apache and Node.js,),
and enterprise tools (e.g., Zoom, Slack, and VS Code) also rely on third
party libraries for various tasks---from media rendering, to parsing network
protocols like HTTP, to image processing (e.g., to blur faces), spell
checking, and aumated text completion. Frameworks like RLBox can help these
applications eliminate such libraries from their trusted computing base.

In the rest of this article we will lay out the path to making library
sandboxing a goto tool in more software engineering environments. We start
with how RLBox works and how it leverages the C++ type systems to make
sandboxing practical. Then we outline what we need to do to bring sandboxing
to other languages, and how our lessons apply to other domains (e.g., trusted
execution environments and OS kernels). Finally, we end with a vision of what
software development could look like if we have first-class support for
sandboxing.

# Sandboxing libraries with RLBox

RLBox is a C++ framework that helps developers migrate and maintain code in
application to safely use sandboxed libraries.

## Why do we need a framework?

The applications-library boundary is tighly coupled and by default application
code is written assuming libraries are trusted. To benefit from sandboxing
requires changing our threat model to assume libraries are untrusted, and modify
the renderer-library interface accordingly (e.g, to sanitize untrusted inputs).

While migrating to this model we made numerous mistakes—overlooking attack
vectors and discovering many bugs only after building RLBox to help detect them.
We present a few illustrative examples below.

!!!!TODO!!!!

We built the RLBox framework to tackle these challenges. RLBox is a pure C++
library that helps developers migrate and maintain code in application to safely
use sandboxed libraries. RLBox does this by providing APIs to invoke sandboxed
functions, permit callbacks into the host application and more generally
exchange data between the sandbox and application. These APIs are built around
tainted types---these are wrapper types used to mark data received from the
sandboxed library and impose a simple static information flow control (IFC)
discipline.

Thus, to migrate application code from use of an unsandboxed library, to a
sandboxed library we must simply use the RLBox API for all interactions with the
sandboxed library.

This simple design for RLBox allows us to provide several features including

- Ensuring the resulting code has security checks in appropriate locations
- Providing a systematic approach to migrating application code to the RLBox API
  accounting for ABI differences, data marshalling etc. automatically
- Easily enabling or disabling different isolation technologies.

### Eliminating confused deputy attacks

!!!!TODO!!!!

### Minimizing sandboxing engineering effort

RLBox is also explicitly designed to minimize engineering effort. For instance,
when using the RLBox API automatically...


!!!!! Swizzling operations, per-
forming checks that ensure sandbox-supplied pointers point
to sandbox memory, and identifying locations where tainted
data must be validated is done automatically. !!!!

!!!!! Talk about how we later added ABI compat here - powered by the combination
of tainted and tainted_volatile!!!!!!

RLBox allows us to migrate application code to use the RLBox API one line at a
time. Between each change, the application can be compiled and run as before.
While the precise approach is explained in detail in our paper, the key parts of
RLBox that allow for is the concept of escape hatches---techniques that let us
disable RLBox's checks for a piece of code.

RLBox offers two important escape hatches.

1) The UNSAFE_unverified API may be used on any tainted data to remove the
  tainted wrapper. This allows the application code to disable tainting of data
  when data must be passed to code that cannot handle tainted data. However, as
  the API name indicates, the use of this API would not enforce the required
  security checks, and is to be used only in the context of migratiging code.
  After migration is complete, calls to UNSAFE_unverified APIs must be removed
  or replaced with validator functions that sanitize the given data.

2) The RLBox API allows the application code to choose the underlying isolation
  mechanism including a noop sandbox option. This option simply redirects
  function calls back to the application but wraps data as if it were received
  from a sandboxed library. This allows us to test the data validation without
  having to actually use a sandboxed library. But the noop sandbox plays an even
  more important role! Since, sandboxing mechanisms such as WebAssembly have a
  different ABI, incremental porting cannot be supported as there is no way to
  apply ABI conversions when escape hatches such as UNSAFE_unverified were used.
  Instead the incremental migration approach would be to use the noop sandbox
  during incremental migration and switch to Wasm enforcement once this
  migration is complete.


While these features were designed with the above use cases in mind, we also
discovered several unexpected practical benefits from the above feature set,
including their interactions after the publication as we incorporated this more
in production code. We discuss these below

First the incremental porting greatly simplifies the code review process. For
instance, we could commit and get reviews for partial migrations to the RLBox
API as this do not the Firefox browser continued to build and run as before.
Additionally, in the initial migration we simply ommitted the validators for use
of UNSAFE_unverified APIs. This allowed to test and deploy the partial migration
on Firefox nightly builds. We then included the data validators in a separate
code review with additional security reviews as part of this change.

Next we discovered that the noop sandbox is critical for downstream projects.
When speaking with developers of the Tor browser, a downstream fork of the
Firefox browser that allows anonymous browsing in the web, we found that Tor was
open to sandbox more libraries than Firefox despite additional performance
overhead due to their higher security requirements. However, the burden of
maintaining a large fork of Firefox with sandboxed libraries was not an
acceptable option. Instead, the RLBox API provides a simple option; Tor
developers could migrate code to use the RLBox API but contribute upstream using
the noop sandbox. They could then switch the configuration in the Tor browser to
use an isolation mechanism that provides enforcement. Since using the noop
sandbox little to no overherad (< 1%), this is a reasonable option.

### Leveraging advances in SFI and hardware isolation

- perf profiles for differnet things
- experiment with new hardware features - mpk, cheri; make this fit:
Trends in compiler toolchains and processors architectures make efficient
in-process isolation increasingly practical without resorting to exotic
techniques e.g. WebAssembly is becoming a defacto standard tool chain for
software based fault isolation, multi-core and even minion processors support
the use of multiple protection domains without prohibitive overheads, and
emerging architecture features such as Intel MPK and ARM-Cheri allow
in-process isolation with very low overhead.

## Applications beyond sandboxing

These problems are not exclusive to sandboxing.

- SGX
- Kernels
- IPC layer in FF

Moreover, RLBox's tainted types can used anywhere we handle untrusted content.

- SQLi
- XSS (TrustedTypes)

# First-class support for tainted types and sandboxing

Though we implemented RLBox in C++ to sandbox C libraries, we believe the
underlying principles translate to other languages.

## What existing langauge features can we reuse?

metaprogramming for secuirity checks
generics or code generation for wrapper tyo
contracts/interface types

## Why we want first-class support?

- can include libraries sandboxed from the start
- ffi-layer should do sandboxing from the start this

# Conclusions

Commit message:

Add text about leveraging hardware

login.md, after:

-- Title: Lowering the barrier to in-process sandboxing

# Introduction

Modern software makes heavy use of third-party libraries. While this is key
for developer productivity, this is also a security nightmare. Third party
libraries, today, are completely trusted and, unfortunately, this means that
bugs in any library can be easily exploited to compromise the entire
application. Even more worrisome, attacks on software supply chains are
becoming more prevealent: attackers are compromising (and sometimes buying)
the accounts of software maintainers to slip backdoored code into popular
libraries.

There is a practical alternative to today's trust-everything model: we can
sandbox libraries and, in turn, minimize the damage due to library bugs and
exploits. Many libraries do not require complete trust for applications to
safely use their functionality. For example, image decoders like libjpeg and
libpng don't need access to anything but the image buffers they operates on,
OpenSSL doesn't need access to anything but the socket it's reading from and
the bytstream it's writing the decrypted HTTP stream to, and spell checkers
like Hunspell don't need access to anything but dictionary files and the
string it's spell checking. (These are just a few examples, however, we
believe many other examples abound.) This implicit separation of privilege
makes libraries especially well suited for sandboxing.

Unfortunately, library sandboxing has suffered from a chicken and egg
problem. Without practical tools for sandboxing libraries with minimal
performance overhead and engineering effort, developers and security
engineers are not looking for these opportunities. Our own experience
sandboxing libraries in Firefox reflects this. Our initial
attempts to manually sandbox third party libraries were labor intensive,
and extremely error prone. In contrast, once we developed a mature
framework---RLBox---to support this activity, the incremental work to sandbox
new libraries became minimal, and more opportunities to sandbox additional
parts of the application became apparent.

For example, while we began with third party font shaping libraries, now
Firefox developers and security engineers are using RLBox for media decoding,
spell checking, even speech synthesis. Similar opportunities exist in many
other application domains. For example, secure messaging apps (e.g., Signal,
WhatsApp, and iMessage), servers and runtimes (e.g., Apache and Node.js,),
and enterprise tools (e.g., Zoom, Slack, and VS Code) also rely on third
party libraries for various tasks---from media rendering, to parsing network
protocols like HTTP, to image processing (e.g., to blur faces), spell
checking, and aumated text completion. Frameworks like RLBox can help these
applications eliminate such libraries from their trusted computing base.

In the rest of this article we will lay out the path to making library
sandboxing a goto tool in more software engineering environments. We start
with how RLBox works and how it leverages the C++ type systems to make
sandboxing practical. Then we outline what we need to do to bring sandboxing
to other languages, and how our lessons apply to other domains (e.g., trusted
execution environments and OS kernels). Finally, we end with a vision of what
software development could look like if we have first-class support for
sandboxing.

# Sandboxing libraries with RLBox

RLBox is a C++ framework that helps developers migrate and maintain code in
application to safely use sandboxed libraries.

## Why do we need a framework?

The applications-library boundary is tighly coupled and by default application
code is written assuming libraries are trusted. To benefit from sandboxing
requires changing our threat model to assume libraries are untrusted, and modify
the renderer-library interface accordingly (e.g, to sanitize untrusted inputs).

While migrating to this model we made numerous mistakes—overlooking attack
vectors and discovering many bugs only after building RLBox to help detect them.
We present a few illustrative examples below.

!!!!TODO!!!!

We built the RLBox framework to tackle these challenges. RLBox is a pure C++
library that helps developers migrate and maintain code in application to safely
use sandboxed libraries. RLBox does this by providing APIs to invoke sandboxed
functions, permit callbacks into the host application and more generally
exchange data between the sandbox and application. These APIs are built around
tainted types---these are wrapper types used to mark data received from the
sandboxed library and impose a simple static information flow control (IFC)
discipline.

Thus, to migrate application code from use of an unsandboxed library, to a
sandboxed library we must simply use the RLBox API for all interactions with the
sandboxed library.

This simple design for RLBox allows us to provide several features including

- Ensuring the resulting code has security checks in appropriate locations
- Providing a systematic approach to migrating application code to the RLBox API
  accounting for ABI differences, data marshalling etc. automatically
- Easily enabling or disabling different isolation technologies.

### Eliminating confused deputy attacks

!!!!TODO!!!!

### Minimizing sandboxing engineering effort

RLBox is also explicitly designed to minimize engineering effort. For instance,
when using the RLBox API automatically...


!!!!! Swizzling operations, per-
forming checks that ensure sandbox-supplied pointers point
to sandbox memory, and identifying locations where tainted
data must be validated is done automatically. !!!!

!!!!! Talk about how we later added ABI compat here - powered by the combination
of tainted and tainted_volatile!!!!!!

RLBox allows us to migrate application code to use the RLBox API one line at a
time. Between each change, the application can be compiled and run as before.
While the precise approach is explained in detail in our paper, the key parts of
RLBox that allow for is the concept of escape hatches---techniques that let us
disable RLBox's checks for a piece of code.

RLBox offers two important escape hatches.

1) The UNSAFE_unverified API may be used on any tainted data to remove the
  tainted wrapper. This allows the application code to disable tainting of data
  when data must be passed to code that cannot handle tainted data. However, as
  the API name indicates, the use of this API would not enforce the required
  security checks, and is to be used only in the context of migratiging code.
  After migration is complete, calls to UNSAFE_unverified APIs must be removed
  or replaced with validator functions that sanitize the given data.

2) The RLBox API allows the application code to choose the underlying isolation
  mechanism including a noop sandbox option. This option simply redirects
  function calls back to the application but wraps data as if it were received
  from a sandboxed library. This allows us to test the data validation without
  having to actually use a sandboxed library. But the noop sandbox plays an even
  more important role! Since, sandboxing mechanisms such as WebAssembly have a
  different ABI, incremental porting cannot be supported as there is no way to
  apply ABI conversions when escape hatches such as UNSAFE_unverified were used.
  Instead the incremental migration approach would be to use the noop sandbox
  during incremental migration and switch to Wasm enforcement once this
  migration is complete.


While these features were designed with the above use cases in mind, we also
discovered several unexpected practical benefits from the above feature set,
including their interactions after the publication as we incorporated this more
in production code. We discuss these below

First the incremental porting greatly simplifies the code review process. For
instance, we could commit and get reviews for partial migrations to the RLBox
API as this do not the Firefox browser continued to build and run as before.
Additionally, in the initial migration we simply ommitted the validators for use
of UNSAFE_unverified APIs. This allowed to test and deploy the partial migration
on Firefox nightly builds. We then included the data validators in a separate
code review with additional security reviews as part of this change.

Next we discovered that the noop sandbox is critical for downstream projects.
When speaking with developers of the Tor browser, a downstream fork of the
Firefox browser that allows anonymous browsing in the web, we found that Tor was
open to sandbox more libraries than Firefox despite additional performance
overhead due to their higher security requirements. However, the burden of
maintaining a large fork of Firefox with sandboxed libraries was not an
acceptable option. Instead, the RLBox API provides a simple option; Tor
developers could migrate code to use the RLBox API but contribute upstream using
the noop sandbox. They could then switch the configuration in the Tor browser to
use an isolation mechanism that provides enforcement. Since using the noop
sandbox little to no overherad (< 1%), this is a reasonable option.

Indeed this flexibility in switching between memory isolation also allows easy
experimentation with many new hardware features. We discuss this next.

### Leveraging advances in SFI and hardware isolation

As discussed RLBox's design allows it to be agnostic to the memory isolation
technique. For example, consider Intel's Memory Protection Key features (MPK)
which allow very effecient sandboxing of components. It would straightforward to
implement RLBox support to use MPK as the isolation mechanism.

RLBox, also allows leveraging more complicated hardware security mechansims. For
instance consider ARM Cheri, which is a hardware feature that converts pointers
into capabilities that apply bounds checks. Since this feature expands the size
of pointers it may not be easy to deploy for all applications especially if the
increased pointer size introduces compatiblities. Furthermore it would not be
easy to apply this to just a portion of the code as any datastructures from this
portion of code would have ABI incompatibilties with the rest of the
application. However, since the RLBox can automatically adjust for ABI
differences, applications can straightforwardly use Cheri to secure a single
component in an application.

Finally, consider Intel TSX which provides hardware support for transactional
memory. RLBox can leverage this feature to prevent time-of-check-time-of-use and
double-fetch attacks. This would potentially allow some speedup over the current
approach, which makes a copy of data before performaing any validation.

## Applications beyond sandboxing

These problems are not exclusive to sandboxing.

- SGX
- Kernels
- IPC layer in FF

Moreover, RLBox's tainted types can used anywhere we handle untrusted content.

- SQLi
- XSS (TrustedTypes)

# First-class support for tainted types and sandboxing

Though we implemented RLBox in C++ to sandbox C libraries, we believe the
underlying principles translate to other languages.

## What existing langauge features can we reuse?

metaprogramming for secuirity checks
generics or code generation for wrapper tyo
contracts/interface types

## Why we want first-class support?

- can include libraries sandboxed from the start
- ffi-layer should do sandboxing from the start this

# Conclusions
